- [Instructor] Now let's talk about the ThreadFactory API.
Executor API by default uses a
Thread factory implementation present inside it
to create threads for the application.
Let's recollect our discussion.
Let me open the Test Executors class
and if you recollect our discussion on line number 30,
we had used this factory method, new Fixed Thread Pool
in order to get the Executor Service object.
Now, since you have not mentioned
any kind of Thread factory reference here,
by default it is falling back
to the default implementation on Thread factory.
So, the Thread factory's going to manufacture threads
and insert them into the pool
and those threads are going to be reused.
So, whenever you use the executor's default
Thread factory implementation,
it will create threads for you,
all of which are in the same thread group
with the same non-priority priority.
Non-priority is basically number five
and a non-demand stasis.
And whenever you have used the fixed thread pool,
or let's say, the cached pool,
or the single thread pool,
you have seen that the names of the threads appear as
pool one, thread one, pool one, thread two,
pool one, thread three,
and so on and so forth.
Now, the problem is that in certain cases,
let's say if you're in debugging
or profiling when you want to investigate the cause
of certain issues in the log files and all,
you really do not want to see these kind of names.
Pool one, thread one
because they really don't signify anything.
They are not really connected to the kind of job
that they're doing.
So, you may have a need to actually have
custom names for your threads
that you decide as apart of some convention
that you want to follow for the application.
So, there is a way
to actually create your own thread factory.
So, Custom Thread factory is created in certain instances
where you wanna give custom names
or maybe set your own priorities
or maybe try to decide the demand stasis of each thread.
Right?
So, once you create a Custom Thread factory,
then you can go back to your Executors utility
and instead of saying new Fixed Thread Pool,
you can actually use the overloaded version of this,
which is demanding the number of threads
and taking the Thread factory instance from you.
So, this Thread factory instance now
will be your Custom Thread factory
that you'll have to provide to this method.
This essentially means that
now whenever you get the pool out of the executors,
it is going to contain threads from your Thread factory.
Right?
So, that's how this works.
We will take a look at the demo in the next video.